# d9-n2

It is the No.2 project of group `d9`.  
This project is widgets implementation for ui configuration, under `d9` widget standard.

# Idea

[d9](https://github.com/InsureMO/rainbow-d9)

# Icons

All icons are copied from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/), free set.

# Widgets

`d9-n2` is a lightweight widget library based on the `d9` standard and implemented with `styled-components`. Currently, it includes the
following widgets:

- Input, NumberInput
- Textarea
- Dropdown
- Checkbox
- Calendar, DateCalendar, DateTimeCalendar
- Button, ButtonBar
- Caption, Label
- Section
- Page
- Ribs, ImmutableRibs (also known as RibsView)
- Table
- FormCell (Enhancement widget, which used to include other widget and provide standard capabilities such as labeling and displaying
  error messages.)

We will not provide detailed descriptions for each widget here. You can refer to the corresponding definitions and source code for the
individual properties standards of each widget. Instead, we will discuss some important features and principles of widget design here.

## Parameterized Styling

In `d9-n2`, we use CSS variables to achieve modifiable widget stylesheets. When you render a widget, you can open the stylesheet and
find the parameters used by that widget.

Here is a runtime sample for `Dropdown`,

```css
/** crFLOD is generated css key, by styled-components */
.crFLOD {
    display: flex;
    position: relative;
    -webkit-box-align: center;
    align-items: center;
    padding: 0 var(--d9-input-indent, 10px);
    outline: none;
    appearance: none;
    border: var(--d9-border, 1px solid var(--d9-border-color, rgb(206, 212, 218)));
    border-radius: var(--d9-border-radius, 4px);
    height: var(--d9-input-height, 32px);
    background-color: transparent;
    transition: all var(--d9-transition-duration, 300ms) var(--d9-transition-timing-function, ease-in-out);
    cursor: pointer;
    width: 100%;
}
```

Therefore, by providing corresponding variable values on the appropriate DOM nodes, you can change the style of the widget.
Additionally, for more precise style control, each widget provides a `data-w` attribute. By specifying and targeting this attribute in
CSS, you can achieve uniform style changes. For example, you can control the style of a `Dropdown` widget by
using `div[data-w=dropdown] {}`. If you need precise control over a specific instance of a widget, we recommend adding custom attributes
in the widget definition, such as `{'data-customized': true}`, and then using `[data-customized=true] {}` in CSS to control it.

## Unwrapped Widgets

All widgets provide an `Unwrapped` mode, mainly designed to offer a pure programming approach. When a widget is
unwrapped, it is no longer bound to the core operations of `d9`, allowing users to control the widget in a way that closely resembles
natural DOM manipulation.

Here is an example to demonstrate the difference between the two approaches:

```typescript jsx
// configuration mode
const def = {
	'$wt': 'Page',
	'$nodes': [{'$wt': 'Input.FC', 'label': 'Name', '$pp': 'name'}]
};
<StandaloneRoot $root={model} {...def} />;

// programming mode
const forceUpdate = useForceUpdate();
const onRemarksChange = (value: PropValue) => {
	model.name = value;
	forceUpdate();
}
<UnwrappedInput value={model.name} onValueChange={onValueChange} />
```

# Global Hooks

`d9-n2` additionally provides a set of global Hooks, including:

- Dialog,
- Alert,
- Confirmation,
- Remote Request Reminder.

To activate global hooks, you first need to use `GlobalEventBusProvider` in your program. The usage is identical to regular hooks, and you
can access specific usage methods through `GlobalEventBus` and `useGlobalEventBus`.

# Logger

`d9-n2` provides a logging function called `N2Logger`, exactly same as `N1Logger`.

# Automation Friendly

Due to the complexity and dynamism of modern web pages, precise component targeting in automated web page testing is often a challenging
issue. To address this challenge and facilitate automation testing, `d9-n2` provides a special attribute called `data-wid` for component
targeting. The value of this attribute is generated based on the widget's property path definition, which ensures
predictability and stability to the greatest extent possible. Additionally, if the widget is enhanced by a `Form Cell`, the corresponding
DOM node generated by the `Form Cell` will also have a corresponding attribute, prefixed with `fc-` for differentiation.